Class06.md, before:

Reading Notes
Class 06

## Windows Security Center


Readings
Windows Defender Security Center

https://www.thewindowsclub.com/windows-defender-security-center


Bookmark and Review

Article - How to use Windows Event Viewer

https://www.faqforge.com/windows/windows-10/what-is-event-viewer-and-how-to-use-it-in-windows-10/



# Windows Defender Security Center
https://www.thewindowsclub.com/windows-defender-security-center

Access through the system tray (in Windows 11) by right-clicking on the icon. 

A dashboard for all security features, and implemented in order to make the security of the computer accessible to regular users. 

and to unify all security settings in one place. 


## Virus and threat protection section
launch 3rd party av protection app from this screen, and view all security scans and threat history.

also in w10 v1709 has protection against ransomware attacks. 



## Device performance and health
monitors battery life and storage capacity. 

comprehensive view of lates updates, drivers.  

restore or refresh windows. 

the above capabilities aren't security related in a direct sense, but odd looking info can indicate a security issue. 

a yellow ! appears on the icon if an issue requires your attention. access via View Health Report within the tool. 


## Firewall and network protection

firewall settings, toubleshooting info links, local networks like in control panel


## App and browser control
SmartScreen features scans apps and browsers and updates any new info re online warnings re apps


## Family Options
Parental controls, activity tracking/managing, access limits, view all family devices in one place


## Settings
toggle windows defender and windows firewall notifications here. 

- configures all other features, too. 


**users can disable windows defender security center taskbar icon.** 


- Add a new page in your reading notes repository, and add your notes.
- Add a link to this new page under the Table of Contents for this course.
- Begin with a statement addressing why this topic matters as it relates to what you are studying in this module.
- Answer each and every question or prompt presented in the assignment above.
- If there are no questions provided, summarize and explain this topic via an analogy from your previous work or home experience.
- Make a section in your notes titled ## Things I want to know more about, and anytime a question arises in your mind, or something catches your curiosity, note it under this heading.
- If you utilize any content directly from the reading sources, be sure to identify what you are quoting, and cite the source.
- To submit this assignment
Publish your updates.
Copy the rendered content, and paste it into the discussion.

Commit message:

updated document to include statement re why the topic is important.

Class06.md, after:

Reading Notes
Class 06

## Windows Security Center


Readings
Windows Defender Security Center

https://www.thewindowsclub.com/windows-defender-security-center


Bookmark and Review

Article - How to use Windows Event Viewer

https://www.faqforge.com/windows/windows-10/what-is-event-viewer-and-how-to-use-it-in-windows-10/



# Windows Defender Security Center
https://www.thewindowsclub.com/windows-defender-security-center

This topic is important, as it directs the reader to the use and design philosophy of windows defender security center. 

Access through the system tray (in Windows 11) by right-clicking on the icon. 

A dashboard for all security features, and implemented in order to make the security of the computer accessible to regular users. 

and to unify all security settings in one place. 


## Virus and threat protection section
launch 3rd party av protection app from this screen, and view all security scans and threat history.

also in w10 v1709 has protection against ransomware attacks. 



## Device performance and health
monitors battery life and storage capacity. 

comprehensive view of lates updates, drivers.  

restore or refresh windows. 

the above capabilities aren't security related in a direct sense, but odd looking info can indicate a security issue. 

a yellow ! appears on the icon if an issue requires your attention. access via View Health Report within the tool. 


## Firewall and network protection

firewall settings, toubleshooting info links, local networks like in control panel


## App and browser control
SmartScreen features scans apps and browsers and updates any new info re online warnings re apps


## Family Options
Parental controls, activity tracking/managing, access limits, view all family devices in one place


## Settings
toggle windows defender and windows firewall notifications here. 

- configures all other features, too. 


**users can disable windows defender security center taskbar icon.** 


- Add a new page in your reading notes repository, and add your notes.
- Add a link to this new page under the Table of Contents for this course.
- Begin with a statement addressing why this topic matters as it relates to what you are studying in this module.
- Answer each and every question or prompt presented in the assignment above.
- If there are no questions provided, summarize and explain this topic via an analogy from your previous work or home experience.
- Make a section in your notes titled ## Things I want to know more about, and anytime a question arises in your mind, or something catches your curiosity, note it under this heading.
- If you utilize any content directly from the reading sources, be sure to identify what you are quoting, and cite the source.
- To submit this assignment
Publish your updates.
Copy the rendered content, and paste it into the discussion.
